Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher. Venue Swicker Office.
The date Friday 14th November 2015.
Interviewee Prithpal Biant.
Prithpal, would you be kind enough to spell your name for us and posterity?
Yes, first name Prithpal, P-R-I-T-H-P-A-L.
Surname's Biant, B-I-A-N-T.
Thank you very much indeed.
So, can you remember when you first came into contact with Swicker?
Yes. Well, I just got my first job after leaving university and it was at the Race and Equality Council.
And I was the Welfare Rights Officer actually, nothing to do with the arts,
but I think I must have said I had an interest in arts because I was always a bit,
anyway, I used to do a bit of arts in my own time.
So they said, oh, we've got this festival thing that we're doing and, you know, we're in touch with Steve.
Why don't you go and, you know, see if he can help you put together the Multicultural Arts Festival,
which is one of the things I wanted to do.
So it started with that and then the REC needed a rep.
Well, you invited a rep from the REC to your board, so they picked me to be the rep.
So then I think I was probably on your board for, I don't know, probably at least two, maybe three years.
No, I can remember you being there. What's your overriding or your general recollections?
What was it like to be on an early Swicker board? Be honest.
OK. Well, I just remember sitting there and you had lots of people,
different people from different funding bodies like the Arts Council, Local Council and different people with different pots of money.
And I do remember it being a bit of a struggle. It wasn't like a positive experience.
And I remember looking back, feeling quite sorry for you, having to defend yourself on every little point you were trying to do.
And, yeah, it wasn't positive. And I don't think anyone was really supporting you and saying, oh, isn't it great that you're doing this?
It was more like, you know, why are you doing it? More than we're really glad you're doing it, which is bizarre, isn't it?
When you look back, considering how much colour and, you know, life it provides to the city.
So I think I just remember thinking, God, what a struggle it was.
And just the arts council, well, not well, you know, the funding bodies try to sort of sometimes compete and fight against each other.
And it was almost like if one would fund you, then the other would say, well, we won't bother them.
But actually, they were all on your board. But it wasn't really supportive or positive.
I don't think so. I thought that's why if you're looking back and not that we are not young and vibrant at heart, but as young and vibrant people,
do we have any ideological differences?
Oh, well, I think, yeah, well, I suppose there was there was this thing.
I remember me used to have discussions about multiculturalism versus interculturalism, which was stupid because we're all on the same side.
But I think maybe because we were all we were all fighting for money.
So in the voluntary sector, because my organisation was, you know, involved sector as well.
So, you know, from the funders point of view, if you were doing anything minority, then they'd take their box.
So they probably only want to fund one body. So why would they want to fund two things?
They wouldn't want to be duplicatory. That would be a crime.
Exactly. Yeah. So I think that so whereas the the Multicultural Arts Festival, I was coordinated a few years before we set up.
That was all about celebrating different cultures in a way, keeping cultures alive because there's so many different minority communities.
And part of the REC's role was about saying, you know, let's be positive about the minority communities.
So that was my role. And then I suppose intercultural was slightly different.
And that was about everybody sharing.
But also, and I don't know whether if I was totally honest, I don't know, sometimes you think you're diluting and it sounds awful.
It's like something my parents would probably think, you know, just pathetic.
But it's rather than celebrating, it's almost like, you know, people want this.
There's the Preservist Camp, isn't there? Yeah. And let's celebrate what exists now.
Or even tradition versus innovation.
Tradition versus fusion. Yes. Exactly. You were more fusion, weren't you? Yes.
And I sort of nobody owned anything. It was all up for grabs.
Let's just let's all make it into a complete mess.
Yeah. Well, I was thinking, you know, it's good to know what Bengali people did with all their chalky street art stuff.
They're still close to my heart.
Yeah. And I used to love that. Or, you know, all the different ones.
And I thought, but really there was a place for everything. Yes.
But I think the environment was such that, you know, you could only have one of something that was minority, which is just ridiculous.
So and I think that there was some friction. It was just I just remember discussions, which I think were silly.
I don't think you ever hit me, did you?
I don't think so. I suspect I was probably right. You were probably bigger than me.
I was probably right anyway.
Yeah. So I remember that.
And then Cardiff Carnival. Yes. How? Please tell us your Cardiff Carnival story.
Yes. So as well as being on the board, I did actually take part outside of work. So nothing to do with work.
Yeah. I was I was doing a life drawing class at Chapter.
Minding your own business.
Yeah. So I was turning up there and it was like in the morning, 10 till 12, I think.
Then either I'd finished or I was late or something.
But I saw you guys in Chapter and you were all dressed in a point.
I was thinking, well, that looks good fun.
And you just said to me, well, you can do it as well if you want. You can take part.
So I remember just I had colorful leggings on and trainers.
All I did was maybe just I just hooked this costume on.
So I it's like a backpack thing. So I'd straps on my shoulders.
Then I had these gorgeous what I think were like peacock type feathers.
So and I think all you did was just paint my face a bit white.
And I just tackled along really.
And I was dancing down from Chapter all the way through Canton, I think.
We went down Canton High Street. And I remember dancing around St. Mary Street.
I can't remember exactly what the finale was, but I just remember thinking, does anybody know who I am?
And I didn't mind because I was all dressed up.
Did anybody identify you or not? Because there's anonymity in Carnival.
But particularly if you have a lot of people who are in a section which resemble each other.
I mean, very hard to spot individuals, even if they're members of your family, I find.
I felt as if nobody knew it was me. You're in disguise.
I was definitely I put all my face with all white stuff on it.
And I had these peacock feathers, which I don't normally wear.
And they were pretty big. And I was dancing on the street and I wasn't drunk or anything.
And it was daylight. So I didn't think anyone recognized me.
So it was really it was a really good experience, actually.
And it was just really fun. And it was totally unexpected. Yeah.
Because I think that's so I think that's probably the most spontaneous example of Carnival participation
I've heard since collecting this story, which is wonderful.
Yeah, I'm not very good at planning things. I'm more.
Yeah. So sometimes the interesting things happen to you when you don't plan.
Absolutely out of the blue. Yeah. So we did that. So that was quite cool.
So I was part of it. I wish I'd done it more. But, you know, then you get life and as I say,
children, family intervenes and children go, I don't want to go.
And you think, OK, just quite right.
Yes. Anyway, but you've been going and you've got all this stuff now.
Yes. Five years, a quarter of a century or what I accidentally did with my life, as the project's name.
And is it better now? Are the board meetings better?
By and large, yes. Yes. Yes.
Yes. The board are certainly they do what they can. Bless them.
I also remember you every year on year, you were struggling for survival.
And you were always trying to trying to get three year funding, but they wouldn't give it to you.
Yes. Yes. So hopefully that's changed.
And that's all gone the other way. So we achieved all that.
And in terms of funding, our hailsing days were probably at the points at which the Arts Council were offering three year funding packages.
The lottery was actually generating large amounts of money.
But so in terms of funding, the hailsing days, certainly for Carnival, were probably 10 years ago.
And so at the moment, for example, the local authority offers no revenue or project support for the Carnival or for Swickr or any projects in the city.
And that's done for two years. I mean, they pay you when you do this.
And they do the first thing. No reverse. We have to raise all the money and give them money to even parade on our own streets.
It's got worse and worse and worse. You add to the diversity in the cultural.
If you were in charge of it, we would have a problem.
Would we? So when they say with the cap of the greatest city in Europe or whatever, the arts contribute to that.
So Cardiff just has the badge and doesn't support people. You've got to add to it. Absolutely.
Well, that's not very good, is it? No. It's a bit hypocritical.
Right, perhaps you should drink in the bar. Yes, why not?
Excellent. Prithpal, thank you very much indeed for your Carnival stories and more besides. It's been a pleasure.
Thank you. Take care.